---
description: 在 2021 年 9 月 30 日之前使用 mSOL 使你有資格獲得回溯性 MNDE 獎勵。 這些獎勵現在已經完全分配。
---

# 回溯獎勵

## :abacus: 獎勵計算

MNDE 獎勵是基於以下計算：mSOL 或 LP 在相關波段中概述的特定時期內每天結束時（00:00 UTC）持有。 這意味著獎勵將與你擁有多少 mSOL 或 LP（包括生態系合作夥伴的 mSOL 相關 LP）成正比。

### 第 0 波

:calendar\_spiral: **時段**：開發網

****:question:**誰符合資格**：在開發網上幫助我們的所有用戶

:abacus: **MNDE 分配**：10 萬個 MNDE 平均分配給所有開發網參與者

****:information\_source: **領取日期**：從 2021 年 11 月 4 日 12:00 UTC 開始。

{% embed url="https://files.gitbook.com/v0/b/gitbook-x-prod.appspot.com/o/spaces%2F1yf2EIoC1hhQOieZQrUj%2Fuploads%2FqWg5JUUFXGMD0fYjl18P%2Fwave0.json?alt=media&token=5a9ab189-e3c2-4018-95a9-ed0af3687f54" %}

### Wave 1&#x20;

:calendar\_spiral: **Period**: From 2nd of August to 9th of August.

****:question:**Who**: mSOL holders (first 100k staked SOL), LPs in the Marinade unstake pool (mSOL/SOL pool on Marinade).

:abacus: **MNDE allocation**: 1,712,637 MNDE.

:information\_source: **Claim date**: starting 11/11/21, 12:00 UTC.

### Wave 2&#x20;

:calendar\_spiral: **Period**: 10th of August to 25th of August

:question:**Who**: mSOL holders, LPs in the Marinade unstake pool + ecosystem integrations. This means that if you have used mSOL in other protocols, you might also be eligible for retroactive rewards.

:abacus: **MNDE allocation**: 3,415,328 MNDE.

:information\_source: **Claim date**: 11/18/21, 16:00 UTC.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
For wave 2 of MNDE distribution, we implemented a claim cap of 50k MNDE per account. Any MNDE above the cap were redistributed to the remaining eligibile accounts. We took this decision to soft-limit a whale impact and empower a larger group of individuals a bit more.
{% endhint %}

### Wave 3

:calendar\_spiral: **Period**: 26th of August to 2nd of September

:question:**Who**: mSOL holders, LPs in the Marinade unstake pool + ecosystem integrations

:abacus: **MNDE allocation**: 2,032,924 MNDE.

:information\_source: **Claim date**: 11/25/21, 17:45 UTC.

{% hint style="info" %}
Starting at wave 3, we lowered our MNDE claim cap to 30k MNDE per account. Any MNDE above this cap will be redistributed to the remaining eligible accounts.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

### Wave 4

:calendar\_spiral: **Period**: 3rd of September to 12th of September

:question:**Who**: mSOL holders, LPs in the Marinade unstake pool + ecosystem integrations

:abacus: **MNDE allocation**: 2,509,630 MNDE.

:information\_source: **Claim date**: 12/02/21, 19:00 UTC.

### Wave 5

:calendar\_spiral: **Period**: 13th of September to 30th of September

:question:**Who**: mSOL holders, LPs in the Marinade unstake pool + ecosystem integrations

:abacus: **MNDE allocation**: 9,555,767 MNDE.

:information\_source: **Claim date**: 12/09/21, 22:30 UTC.

{% hint style="info" %}
The MNDE claim cap for this wave has been set at 100k MNDE.
{% endhint %}
