---
description: >-
  You have an audience and you want to join the quest to decentralize Solana?
  You can integrate our staking/unstaking feature directly on your app and earn
  a share of the revenues generated by your TVL.
---

# Referral program

## What is Marinade referral program?

When users stake with Marinade, they agree to give 1.95% of their rewards generated each epoch to Marinade, in exchange for using our liquid staking service (see [Fee structure](../faq/faq.md#what-fees-does-marinade-charge)). &#x20;

Marinade referral program has been built to **reward actors of the ecosystem who help us in our mission to decentralize Solana**. By sharing a part of our revenues with partners bringing TVL into mSOL, we align their incentives with ours for everyone to benefit from a safer and more decentralized Solana network.

If you want to join our referral program, all you have to do is:&#x20;

1. Integrate [Marinade SDK](../developers/marinade-ts-js-sdk.md). Our team can help out if needed.
2. Get your referral ID by setting up a meeting with our team (please fill out this [form](https://tally.so/r/mKa2gw)).&#x20;
3. Let your users know that they can now stake and unstake through your platform and help you and the Solana network!&#x20;

{% hint style="success" %}
You can see an integration example at this link: [https://github.com/marinade-finance/liquid-staking-referral-example-app](https://github.com/marinade-finance/liquid-staking-referral-example-app)
{% endhint %}

### Payment frequency

As soon as you've integrated our staking feature, you will start earning your share of the rewards. Your share will be distributed monthly and manually to begin with. \
Whenever possible, we will move to a fully automated and on-chain solution to optimize costs and payment frequency.&#x20;

## Rewards calculation

First, the TVL brought by a partner for the month (in SOL) is calculated with the following formula:&#x20;

> Total Partner Stake - Total Partner Unstake - Socialized Unstaked

Where:&#x20;

**Total Partner Stake** = Total SOL staked through your referral ID

**Total Partner Unstake** = Total SOL unstaked through your referral ID

**Socialized Unstake** = **** Total SOL unstaked through any other referral ID. Unidentified unstakes (no referral ID) are totalled and subtracted from every partner’s stake pro rata.

{% hint style="info" %}
Those numbers are calculated on a monthly basis. For rewards regarding January, data from January 1 to February 1 are used to calculate each of this numbers. You can have an estimation of the Socialized Unstake by looking at the delta in [this graph ](https://stats.marinade.finance/d/sqUQd1Onk/marinade-kpi-dashboard?orgId=1\&viewPanel=57)for the month.
{% endhint %}

Once the TVL is calculated, we need to calculate the total rewards generated by this TVL per epoch.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
If we take as a basis an epoch duration of 2 days and Marinade APY at 6.67%, we can estimate the total rewards for an epoch at approximatively 0.04% (The calcul being `((1+6.67%)^(2/365))-1`).&#x20;
{% endhint %}

> Total rewards per epoch =  `((1+6.67%)^(2/365))-1` \* TVL

Once the total amount of rewards for the epoch is calculated, we need to calculate 1.95% of those rewards (the part that will be split between Marinade and you).

> 1.95% \* Total rewards per epoch

This gives us the rewards to split. We then calculate your split of the rewards according to this formula:&#x20;

> **Continuous Staking Fees Tier % \* Rewards to split**

Where:&#x20;

**Continuous Staking Fees Tier %** = Your share of the total rewards, depending on your [Referral program tier](referral-program.md#undefined).&#x20;

### Examples

**Example A:**&#x20;

* Protocol A has been used to stake 500k SOL and has been used to unstake 50k SOL.
* Socialized unstake is standing at 140k SOL.&#x20;

> (500 000 - 50 000 - 140 000) = 310 000

We can evaluate the TVL brought by Protocol A at 310k SOL. We then calculate the rewards per epoch on a basis of a 2 day epoch:&#x20;

> 310 000 \* ((1+6.67%)^(2/365))-1 = 109,6995635

These 310k SOL will produce 109,6995635 SOL in rewards per epoch.&#x20;

Marinade will get 1.95% of these rewards, or 2.139 SOL, per epoch. Protocol A will get 15% of those 2.139 SOL (0.32085 SOL) for each epoch.

Considering a monthly transfer and 15 epochs in a month, this represents **4.17105 SOL** (_`0.32085*`_`153`) each month on a regular basis.

**Example B**

* Protocol B has been used to stake 100k SOL and has been used to unstake 50k SOL.
* Socialized unstake is standing at 140k SOL.&#x20;

> (100 000 - 50 000 - 140 000) = -90 000

Since the value can't be negative, we consider that this partner does not bring any TVL into Marinade at the current moment.&#x20;

## Referral program tiers

Depending on the TVL you are bringing to mSOL, your share of the fees evolve automatically.&#x20;

| Tiers | TVL - Net staked (SOL) | Fees shared |
| :---: | :--------------------: | :---------: |
|   8   |        1 000 000       |     20 %    |
|   7   |         500 000        |    17.5 %   |
|   6   |         250 000        |     15 %    |
|   5   |         100 000        |     14 %    |
|   4   |         50 000         |     13 %    |
|   3   |         10 000         |     12 %    |
|   2   |          1 000         |     11 %    |
|   1   |            1           |     10 %    |

